+++
date = '2024-11-10T20:36:24-06:00'
draft = true
title = 'November 10th, 2024'
+++
## Introduction

Today, I read through sections (if you can call it that) one through fifteen of the book. I already read it before, but I was
surprised at the amount of new insight I was able to gain when I read it again. I took notes in my notebook. My notes include
summaries, as well as my own analysis. To maintain the value of this read, I will only include my own analysis and give context
when needed.

## Analysis

### Finite vs infinite games

The author describes a finite game as something you play to win, while an infinite game's purpose is to continue the game. This
premise, while confusing at the start, seems to explain a lot of ideas that drive influential, powerful, and successful people.
Depending on how you interpret his definitions of finite and infinite games, either only something as powerful as concepts described
in religion are infinite games, or concepts infinite magnitudes of orders smaller like empires and organizations are also
infinite games. Even if one doesn't consider empires and organizations true infinite games, in my opinion it is extremely clear that
they approximate infinite games close enough that they can approximately analyzed as infinite games. This is analogous to
approximating an finite series as infinite, as a discrete function as continuous in calculus.

Aside from the fact that finite games and infinite games have different goals, finite games are also temporally, spatially, and
"membershiply" bound. These bounds ensure that a clear winner can be selected. Also, while only one person "wins" a finite game,
many can be ranked at the end of it.

The one big aspect in which infinite games are identical to finite games is that players MUST always
choose to participate freely. It is also not easy to say when the game began, and this piece of
information is not too important to infinite games.

### Are common institutions truly infinite games?

Reading into this well is what led me to personally conclude that empires, organizations and religions
are actually pure infinite games, not just approximations of them. Thinking of citizens of country,
or followers of religion, first, one sees the cases where it is extremely hard to point to one time
and say the game started there. This includes a lot of religions old empires (eg. Roman). However,
even in modern cases where the start date is somewhat clearly defined and celebrated (eg. July 4th),
we can see that this has no actual impact on how the game is played. American being founded on July
4th, 1776 has no bearing on how the "game" is played. Same goes with religions that have a set start
date - followers rarely play differently based on that.

### Finite games in infinite games

Moving on, a lot of times, it might appear that infinite game players participate in finite games. This
can be explained by the fact that finite games can be played within infinite games. This covers all
competitions that happens - infinite players treat these as nothing but finite games in an infinite game,
but to finite players, they treat these much more seriously. Example can be being selected as a leader for
an organization, getting admitted into a prestigious institution, etc.

### Rules and change of rules in finite vs infinite games

#### Basics of rules and rule changes

Rules, and how they can be changed, in my opinion, is the statement with the most profound implication for structuring society, in my
opinion. Rules are limitations that all players agree on - they are proven valid not by authority, but
rather by the willingness of all players to follow them.

In finite games, rules are decided before play, and they *cannot* be changed during play. This is to ensure
a clear winner can be selected. However, in infinite games, where the goal is to keep on playing forever,
rules *have* to change during play. This is to ensure that the infinite game can bring in as much people into
the game as possible, and that it doesn't stop with a finite outcome. However, rules are only changed when they have,
not just because they can.

#### Its implications

This has a clear analog to how empires and governments are run. Leaders don't simply want to win, they want to keep
the game running forever. Thus, as players who don't have the power to change the rules, one of the most powerful
measures we can take to ensure that the game keeps playing is to threaten to leave the game. This can be done in
various means, but competent infinite-game-playing leaders will ensure that concerns like this are addressed through
rule changes. Infinite game players do not want a finite "win".

